So let's have a bit of a recap on what
we've learnt about method overloading
and discuss the benefits of by using
method overloading.
So confirming again as a recap that
method overloading is a feature that
allows us to have more than one method
with the same name so long as we use
different arguments or parameters so
it's the ability to create multiple
methods of the same name with different
implementations, calls to an overloaded
method will run a specific
implementation or version if you will of
that method. Now in the example from the
previous video, we hit the calculate
score method that had 0 1 & 2 parameters.
As an example let's say that you have to
create a method which can do the sum of
two numbers the sum of three numbers and
the sum of four numbers. Now each method
would have parameters passed to it with
the numbers to sum, so ending up with the
following methods in this example is not
good practice and actually is not method
overloading so you'd never want to write
code like I'm showing you below because
it's considered bad practice and you can
see in a scenario we've got three
methods of different names to remember.
So the main problem here with these
methods is that you have to remember
three method names that do the sum. Now
imagine that you wanted to have a method
that adds up to 20 numbers. You know your
victory in up having to write 20
different methods with 20 different names,
remember ng 20 names would be quite hard
so to overcome this problem we can use
the same name for the method, let's see
it see an example of that so a solution
to that problem with method overloading
would still end up with three methods
but note that they're now all sharing
the same method name much easy to
remember so we've got a method that sums
overloaded twice with two three or four
parameters so that's an example of how
the method should be written in other
words we can use the method overloading
feature and write methods with the same
name so that way we just need to
remember one name of the method which in
this case is sum. Alright so let's now
see both examples at once so at the top
there we've got the bare practice and
that's with the three different method names
and again the reason we're doing that is
firstly it's not method overloading but
secondly it's hard to remember method
names that are different there in the
example below, we've got three methods
with the same name we just have to
remember one method name and it gives us
more flexiblity, you can see how method
overloading can be very helpful when
scenarios like this you keep in mind
that method overloading is a very common
thing it's used everywhere and in many
other languages as well. So as an
example the printing method which of
course is part of Java that's a great
example of method overloading there's
actually ten methods with the same name
print line in Java and that's allowing
us to print an integer and a double
print a string and so on. So you can see
that's a good example of method
overloading, so it's a formal recap on
method overloading,
it improves code readability and
reusability, it's easier to remember one
method name instead of remembering
multiple names, it achieves consistency
in naming so one name four methods that
are commonly used and it's example println
from the java language itself and
finally overloaded methods give
programmers the flexibility to call a
similar method with different types of
data based on the arguments or
parameters that you define so that's the
method overloading recap, let's now move
on to the next video.